right in this video we're going to cover
how to replace the tie rod on this Jeep
Wrangler and you can see how the boot on
the end of this tie rod is torn and
needs to be replaced next we're going to
remove the cotter pin and castle nut
from where the steering damper attaches
to the tie rod here if the steering
damper doesn't pop right off it's a good
idea to leave the castle nut on and use
it to hammer so you don't mess up the
threads this one finally just popped off
to raise the vehicle and put it on jack
stands take the tires off to give us
more room to work on those tie rod ends
we're going to remove the cotter pin and
the castle nut from the tie rod end so
now in the passenger side we're removing
the cotter pin castle nut and then we're
going to drive the tie rod end how do
the steering knuckle because we're
replacing this tie rod end it doesn't
matter if we beat on the end of it to
pop it loose on this tie rod here we're
going to take some key measurements from
the center here to the end of the
adjustment sleeve also from the center
here to the very end of the tie rod to
the center of the ball joint here on the
tie rod we want to make sure that when
we put this adjustment sleeve and the
tie rod in that these lengths stay the
same the other thing we're going to do
when we remove the tie rod end we're
going to count the number of revolutions
that it takes to pull it off and when we
take the adjustment sleeve off we're
going to count the number of revolutions
it takes to pull it off so we're going
to go ahead and loosen these two bolts
remove the tie rod in and start on
threading the adjustment sleeve okay now
this is reverse threaded but we're going
to count one two 25:25 revolutions so as
we're taking this adjustment sleeve off
we're counting the number of revolutions
okay and we're going to put a little bit
of chassis grease more than where the
sleeve is going to go on the new tie rod
here thread the adjustment sleeve back
on 25 revolutions so we've got these we
have these Jam nuts loosened up pretty
good and this adjustment sleeve it will
rotate in there
it's a little bit tricky to get it to
thread on and off but it's do a wall
just takes a little bit of monkeying
around and now we're going to double
check our measurements we've got it on
there 25 revolutions
what's the 25 125 and 23 30 cents a mile
we're like a twenty six seven eight
check our other measurements this is
seventeen and eleven sixteenths yeah
it's like it's seventeen six seven eight
so it needs to go in a little bit this
is a great example of why it's important
to take accurate measurements and not
just count the number of revolutions the
tie-rod was a slightly different length
so the revolutions were off but with our
measurements we were able to get it
really close tighten the bolts on the
adjustment sleeve to hold it in place
we're going to slip the tie rod into
place now we've got the tie rod mounted
into the steering knuckle on both sides
we're going to fit the drag length tie
rod end into the tie rod here I'm just
going to kind of dry fit all these
together before we start torquing any of
the nuts we're going to reattach the
steering damper to the tie rod put our
castle note on there now we're going to
torque the steering knuckle the tie rod
castle nut to 35 foot pounds and we're
placing the cotter pin and the grease
fitting now that our drag link to the
tie rod we're torquing 235 foot-pounds
and replace the cotter pin and the
grease fitting okay so the steering
damper in a tie rod we're going to
torque this to 53
and then put our car opinion look at
this steering knuckle to tie-rod on the
driver side torque 235 we're going to
put the cotter pin in there and the
grease fitting on the bottom okay just
Minh sleeve bolts we are going to torque
234 foot-pounds then go around and
grease all of the fittings
all right so we've got the tie rods all
done wheels back on lug nuts are torqued
to a hundred foot-pounds it's going to
be real important to go get a alignment
done now so thanks for watching and be
sure to subscribe right here to check
out some of my other videos have a good
day